# 2021SW_LSTM-storm

Paper #2021SW (Journal of Space Weather)

Title: "A possibility of regional ionosphere prediction using the LSTM deep-learning algorithm specialized for geomagnetic storm period"

Authors: Jeong-Heon Kim, Young-Sil Kwak, Su-In Moon, Se-Heon Jeong, YongHa Kim, JongYeon Yun

Abstract:

In our previous study (Kim et al., 2020), we utilized an LSTM model for geomagnetic quiet days (LSTM-quiet), effectively performing long-term predictions for the regional ionosphere. However, in the case of geomagnetic storm days, our model could not predict at all. This study developed a deep learning model suitable for geomagnetic storms by redesigning the new training data set, input parameters, and the hyper-parameters. We collected 131 days of geomagnetic storm cases from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2019, provided by the Japan Meteorological Agency's Kakioka Magnetic Observatory. Also, we obtained the Bz, Dst, Kp, and AE indices related to the geomagnetic storm corresponding to each storm date from the OMNI database. These indices and Jeju ionosonde's (33.43˚N, 126.30˚E) foF2 and hmF2 values were used as input parameters for the LSTM deep-learning model. To test and validate the prediction performance and the possibility of utilizing the LSTM model for geomagnetic storms developed in this way, we created and diagnosed the 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, 6 hours, 12 hours, and 24 hours prediction LSTM models respectively. According to the results of this study, first, the LSTM storm model developed in this study confirmed a better prediction performance of about 32.2% in RMSE of foF2 than the LSTM quiet model (Moon et al., 2020; Kim et al., 2020). It also showed 34.4% better predictive performance than the widely used SAMI2 model and 36.9% better than the IRI-2016 model. In hmF2, the LSTM storm model calculated an RMSE that is approximately 10.4%, 16.5%, and 5.3% lower than the LSTM quiet, SAMI2, and IRI-2016 models. In other words, the LSTM storm model was relatively good at predicting the conditions of an ionospheric storm that occurred during a geomagnetic storm that was pointed out in previous studies. Secondly, it was not easy to predict more than half the day we wanted before. However, we suggest that short-term predictions of less than 3 hours are possible. We quantitatively evaluated the LSTM model for each prediction target (different time), and our model shows an RMSE of less than about 1Mhz for foF2 and 25 km for hmF2. Cases such as the ionospheric storm are quite difficult to predict because they change under a wide variety of conditions. Thus, we propose that the 3 hour or less predictive model we have developed is competitive enough compared to other traditional ionospheric models. Also, because our study is the first attempt to collect and train only geomagnetic cases and then develop deep learning models, we believe it has great significance. This study suggests that it can be used for the prediction and surveillance of the ionosphere.

Data:

The uploaded data (Analyzed data_quiet & Analyzed data_storm) are the data used to make the figures of this paper. I used the correlation coefficient, Root Meas Square Error (RMSE), and Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE) as the performance skill scores. The correlation coefficient values are obtained using the REGRESS function of the IDL program, and the RMSE, MAPE, and RD are calculated using the equations (5), (6), and (7), respectively which were explained in this paper.
